A mention of cows being offered to guests in the Āpastamba-gr̥hya-sūtrá of the Tāittirīya-saṁhitā́ of the Kr̥ṣṇa-yajur-vedá.

16. After the guest has recited the next (formula, M. II, 10, 6) over (the cow, the host) cools its omentum, 
and having performed the 'spreading under' and the sprinkling over (of Ājya), he sacrifices it with the next (verse, M. II, 10, 7) 
with a Palāśa leaf from the middle or the end (of the stalk).
~ Hermann Oldenberg

17. If the guest chooses to let (the cow) loose, he murmurs the next (formulas, II, 10, 8-11) in a low voice (and says) loudly, 'Om! Let it loose!' (II, 10, 12).

The host would announce: here is a cow! Thereafter the guest being the „arghyavyakti‟ would recite gourasyapahatapaapmeand perform abhimantra while the atithi deva would caress the cow,
 spread ajya all over its body with palaasha leaf and recite the next mantra: agnihpraashanaatu--mantras and perform havan. 
In case, the guest might choose to let the cow loose, he would slowly utter yagjnovardhataa-- and then loudly announce Omutsrujate/ Om! Let it loose. 
Then would follow Annanivedanam- In this situation, may the cow be given food along with five mantras: siddhennaamtishthanbhutamitiswaaminedprabruyat--
Further, his acharya, or ritvijaor father in law, or king should perform the arghya ceremony, 
since these as were referred to should normally visir his house but atleast a year had elapsed and hence one of them be accorded the arghya karma.

ESSENCE OF AAPASTAMBA GRIHYA SUTRAS

As we can see sūtrá-s 16 and 17 state a ritual in which guests were offered cows, which could either be sacrificed, or they could be let loose.

Another instance in the Āpastamba-gr̥hya-sūtrá regarding cow offerings is the 9th sūtrá of the 3rd khanda of the 1st Praśna which states:
"Bandhusheelalakshana sampanaamaragoaamupapya-chhet"
These are the occasions for killing a cow: (the arrival of) a guest, (the Aṣṭakā sacrifice offered to) the Fathers, and marriage. - Oldenberg translation.
At the wedding one cow in the house should prepare for an Argha reception for the bridegroom as for a revered guest,and another to the bridegroom - V.D.N.Rao translation.
