In the r̥g veda there are hymns known as the āprī sūkta-s which are employed during sacrifices for a certain diety.

There are 10 āprī hymns in the Şākala-saṁhitā́, viz. 1.13 by medhātithi kāṇva, 1.142 by dīrghatamas aucathya, 1.188 by agastya maitrāvaruṇi, 2.3 by gṛtsamada śaunaka, 3.4 by gāthina viśvāmitra, 
5.5 by vasuśruta ātreya, 7.2 by vasiṣṭha, 9.5 by asita kāśyapa, 10.70 by sumitra vādhryaśca, and finally 10.110 by rāma jāmadagnya.

All the composers belong to major clans in the Şākala-saṁhitā́, like the kāṇva-s of book 8, gautama-s of book 4, the viśvāmitra-s of book 3, the atri-s of book 5, 
the vasiṣṭha-s of book 7, the kāśyapa-s in various scattered hymns of the later books, the only outliers are the agastya-s and the jamadagni-s.

The agastya-s were a minor clan in the Şākala-saṁhitā́, and this translated to being put last in the pravara-adhyāya-s of the śrauta-sūtra-s.

But the jamadagni-s, who were also a minor clan in the Şākala-saṁhitā́, having around 13 hymns to their name, 
(The number does not increase significantly if we include the hymns of other bhārgava composers) rose to great importance by the time of the śrauta-sūtra-s, 
where they were put first in the pravara-adhyāya-s. They were also numerically the largest clan in the śrauta-sūtra-s.

One explanation is that the jamadagni clan was a later vrātya clan who were assimilated into aryan society later on.

Maybe the Jamadagni-s composed the bulk of another Sáṁhitā (Tāittirīya, Kapiṣṭhala-kāṭha, &c. &c.) of the Kr̥ṣṇa-yajur-vedá, 
and that's why their lineages are always first in the pravara-adhyāya-s of the śrauta-sūtra-s of the Kr̥ṣṇa-yajur-vedins. 
Or maybe the Atharva-vedá vrātya explanation is true.

If there is solid evidence from the Brā́hmaṇa-s that the Jamadagni-s composed a solid portion of them then that would make sense. But there isn't a systematic indices of which clan composed what in the Brā́hmaṇa literature.
Again mentions do indicate a presence of the clan in the time of the Brā́hmaṇa's composition but that doesn't indicate that the Jamadagni clan was a major clan compared to the likes of major clans like the áṅgirās clan. 
The lack of hymns in Şākala-saṁhitā́, and the small amount of hymns that are there being present in the later books, is pretty solid evidence that the Jamadagni-s were a later or minor clan during the time of the R̥g-vedá.

Presence of the Jamadagni-s in the Şākala-saṁhitā́:

8.102.04a aurvabhr̥guvác chúcim
8.102.04b apnavānavád ā́ huve
8.102.04c agníṃ samudrávāsasam

Āpşs 24.5.12:
The Jamadgnya Vatsas: the series of ancestors of them consist of five Rsis (the Hot says:) O Bhargava, Cyavana, Apnavana, Aurva, Jamadagnya. 
The Adhvaryu says: in the manner of Jamadagni, Urva, Apnavat, Cyavana, Bhrgu.

