Āpastamba is referring to the brahma-charya-vidhíḥ that he described later on in Praśna I, Paṭala 1, Khaṇḍa 2.

Now (follow) the rules for the studentship.
He shall obey his teacher, except (when ordered to commit) crimes which cause loss of caste.[7]
He shall do what is serviceable to his teacher, he shall not contradict him.[8]
He shall always occupy a couch or seat lower (than that of his teacher).[9]
He shall not eat food offered (at a sacrifice to the gods or the Manes),
Nor pungent condiments, salt, honey, or meat.[10]
He shall not sleep in the day-time.
He shall not use perfumes.[11]
He shall preserve chastity.[12]
He shall not embellish himself (by using ointments and the like).[13]
He shall not wash his body (with hot water for pleasure).
But, if it is soiled by unclean things, he shall clean it (with earth or water), in a place where he is not seen by a Guru.[14]
Let him not sport in the water whilst bathing; let him swim (motionless) like a stick.[15]
He shall wear all his hair tied in one braid.[16]
Or let him make a braid of the lock on the crown of the head, and shave the rest of the hair


There are more rules too, the list extends till Praśna I, Paṭala 3, Khaṇḍa 11, Sū́tra 18. Note that some of them are exclusive to initiates only. 
For example 33 discusses about the girdle (the ancient equivalent of the Yajna-Upavīta) that a student should wear after initiation.

Now for the "Brahman-Killers", they should follow the above procedure too, but then after the upa-nayana, they should recite the seven Pāvamānīs (Şākala-saṁhitā́ 9.57.21-9.57.27)
 along with the Yajuṣpavitra (Tāittirīya-saṁhitā́ 1.2.1.1), Sāmapavitra (Kāuthuma-saṁhitā́ I, 2, 2, 3, 5), and the Āṅgirasapavitra (Şākala-saṁhitā́ 4.40.5), daily during their bath. 
The Vyāhṛtis may also be recited. This should continue for as many years as there are uninitiated members in your family. Then they can receive vedic education.

For as many years as there are uninitiated persons, reckoning (one year) for each ancestor (and the person to be initiated himself),
(They should bathe daily reciting) the seven[1] Pāvamānīs, beginning with 'If near or far,' the Yajuṣpavitra, ('May the waters, the mothers purify us,' &c.) the Sāmapavitra, ('With what help assists,' &c.), and the Āṅgirasapavitra ('A swan, dwelling in purity'),
Or also reciting the Vyāhṛtis (om, bhūḥ, bhuvaḥ, suvaḥ).
After that (such a person) may be taught (the Veda).

But if your great-grandfather's (grandfather's and father's) initiation is not remembered (the 'burial ground' case) you have to follow the brahma-charya-vidhíḥ for 12 years.
 Once those 12 years are over, then you can be instructed in the Gṛhya-mantras. Once that is over, he has to follow the brahma-charya-vidhíḥ for 2 months, and then he can be normally initiated.

But those whose great-grandfather's (grandfather's and father's) initiation is not remembered, are called 'burial grounds.'
Intercourse, dining, and intermarriage with them should be avoided. For them, if they like, the (following) penance (is prescribed). 
(Such a man) shall keep for twelve years the rules prescribed for a student who is studying the three Vedas. Afterwards he may be initiated. 
Then he shall bathe, reciting the Pāvamānīs and the other (texts mentioned above, I, 1, 2, 2).
Then he may be instructed in the duties of a householder.
He shall not be taught (the whole Veda), but only the sacred formulas required for the domestic ceremonies.
When he has finished this (study of the Gṛhya-mantras), he may be initiated (after having performed the penance prescribed) for the first neglect (I, 1, 1, 28).
Afterwards (everything is performed) as in the case of a regular initiation.[2] He who has been initiated shall dwell as a religious student in the house of his teacher,[3]
As we can see, Āpastamba discusses many possible situations of failing to initiate, hinting that maybe the Upa-nayana was also delayed by some back then too.

Reference: Āpastamba-dharma-sūtrá https://www.wisdomlib.org/hinduism/book/apastamba-dharma-sutra/d/doc116234.html#note-t-61804
