
The Interesting Story of Tāittirīya-Saṁhitā́’s 7th Kāṇḍa

         vii. 4.19.
a O Amba! O Ambali! O Ambika!
b No one leadest me.The wicked horse is sleeping.
c O fair one, clad in fair raiment in the world of heaven be ye two covered....{...several verses omitted from original translation...}
1 When the deer eateth grain,He deemeth not his flock fat.When the Çadra woman is the loved of the Aryan,
She seeketh not wealth for prosperity....{...several verses omitted from original translation...****}**
q Dadhikravan have I sung,The swift strong horse.May he make our mouths fragrant;May he lengthen our days.
r Ye waters are healing;Further us to strength,To see great joy.
s The most auspicious flavour that is yoursAccord to us hereLike eager mothers.
t To him may we come with satisfaction,To whose dwelling ye quicken us,O waters, and propagate us.
			
This is The Yajur Veda, (Taittiriya Sanhita),Arthur Berriedale Keith, translator 1914


Now we can see Keith has left out some verses for some reason or the other. What could those verses be?

Here's the actual sanskrit text of the 1st verse of the 19th anuvāka of the prapāṭhaka 4

          Paragraph: 19 Verse: 1
Sentence: 1=a  ámbe ámbāly ámbike
Sentence: 2=b  ná mā nayati káś caná / sasásty aśvakáḥ //
Sentence: 3=c  súbʰage kā́mpīlavāsini suvargé loké sám prórṇvātʰām /
Sentence: 4=d  ā́hám ajāni garbʰadʰám ā́ tvám ajāsi garbʰadʰám /
Sentence: 5=e  táu sahá catúraḥ padáḥ sám prá sārayāvahai /
Sentence: 6=f  vŕ̥ṣā vāṁ retodʰā́ réto dadʰātu \
Sentence: 7=g  út saktʰyòr gr̥dáṃ dʰehy añjím údañjimm ánv aja / 
                                       yá strīṇā́ṃ jīvabʰójano yá āsām //

Here's the verse in Deva-nāgarī script (1957 Svadhyaya Mandal Pune). The bold part in the transliteration is the omitted text in Keith's.


Keith just omits the above verses of 7.4.19 without a second thought, and adds "the next verses are hardly translatable.".

It's not just Keith too, for some reason many western-scholars leave out certain parts of the Véda that are similar to each other:

Eggeling just leaves ellipses or doesn't even translate it and leaves the original sanskrit,for example Şata-patha-brāhmaṇá Kāṇḍa 13, Adhyāya 5, Brāhmaṇa 2

"When the foot-water is ready, they cause the Mahishî to lie down near the horse, and cover her up with the upper cloth, with 'In heaven ye envelop yourselves,
'--for that indeed is heaven where they immolate the victim, . . ., 'May the vigorous male, the layer of seed, lay seed!' she says for the completeness of union."
Satapatha Brahmana Part V (SBE44), Julius Eggeling tr. [1900], at sacred-texts.com

Griffith in his translation of the Vājasaneya-saṁhitā́ leaves verses 20-31 of the 23rd Adhyāya, and as a footnote states

"This and the following nine stanzas are not reproducible even in the semi-obscurity of a learned European language; and stanzas 30,31 would be unintelligible without them."
WHITE YAJURVEDA GRIFFITH

If you want to see the verses of the 23rd Adhyāya that he left they can be found here.
Caland in his translation of the Āpastamba-şrāuta-sūtrá: Das Şrautasūtra Des Āpastamba 20.18.4 deliberately doesn't translate "na mā yabhati kaś cana" into german and instead chooses the latin "non me futuit quispiam." 
which would translate to "No-one fucked me."
Das Şrautasūtra Des Āpastamba

Now why do Keith and other English translators refrain from translating this verse and other similar verses found in other parts of the Véda?


Well let's check out what the verse from the Tāittirīya-Saṁhitā́ actually means.

TS 7.4.19.1 d-g
O lucky one, clothed in kāmpīla-cloth, may you two be entirely covered in the heavenly world. I will drive the impregnator; you will drive the impregnator. 
Together let us two stretch forth our four feet. Let the bullish seed-placer of you two place the seed. Put the penis up between the two thighs. 
Drive the sleek one, adorned at the end,  along (the thighs). Which is the living pleasure-maker for women, which is their hole-rubber/cleaner,

Sacrificed Wife, Sacrificer's Wife Women Ritual and Hospitality in Ancient India by Stephanie W. Jamison

What did you just read? That’s right, this is part of the ancient aśvamedha ritual. It is covered in many saṁhitā́-s, more or less with pretty much the same format. 
This part above is near the ending of the ritual, where the king’s main wife (mahiṣī) had to participate in ritual ‘sexual intercourse’ with the recently deceased horse. 
Nowadays many interpret this as some sort of ‘symbolic’ intercourse where the mahiṣī doesn’t even get close to the dead horse, but to say this is far from the truth.

Let’s check out the best source of auxiliary information to vedic rituals that we have, The şrāuta-sūtrá-s:



ĀpŞS XX. 18.4 prajananena prajananam saṁdhāya

Putting (its) generative organ together with (her) generative organ.


KŞS XX.6.16 aśvaśiśnam upasthe kurute

(The Mahiṣī) takes the penis of the horse in her lap.


BŞS XV.29 (234: 9) athaiṣa mahiṣy upasthe śepham ādhatte 

Then the Mahiṣī places the penis in her lap.


VārŞS III.4.4.15 sam̐hitaprajananayoḥ

When their two generative organs have been put together. . .



ŞB XIII.5.2.2 áśvasya śiśnaṁ máhiṣy úpasthe nídhatte 

The Mahiṣī puts the penis of the horse in her lap.


These lines are evidence that the incidents mentioned above were a little bit more than purely ‘symbolic’
