What is the Vedic view of hospitality?



The concept of hospitality was certainly not foreign to the Ā́rya-s. Şākala-saṁhitā́ 10.117 is a hymn in praise of charity (dhanānnadānapraśaṁsa), though it is not about hospitality per se, it does show the vedic attitude towards helping out those who come and are needy:

The stronger man should give to one in need. He should look along the longer path,
for riches turn like chariot-wheels: they come up to one man after another. ~ 10.116.5 Şākala-saṁhitā́

Even in the Atharva-vedá we find mention of helping out the vrātya-s (wandering ascetics). Atharva-vedá 15.11 prescribes what to do when  a vrātya comes to our house:

तद्यस्यै॒वं वि॒द्वान्व्रात्योऽ ति॑थिगृ॒हाना॒गच्छेत् ॥ १॥
If such a learned Vratya atithi, pious and divinely committed visitor, were to come to the house of a grhasthi, a family man ..
स्व॒यमे॑नमभ्युदेत्य॑ ब्रूया॒द् व्रात्य॒ क्वा ऽ वात्सी॒र्ब्रात्यो॑द॒कं व्रात्य॑ त॒र्पय॑न्तु॒ व्रात्य॒ यथा॑ ते प्रि॒यं तथा॑स्तु॒ व्रात्य॒ यथा॑ ते॒ वश॒स्तथा॑स्तु॒ व्रात्य॒ यथा॑ ते निका॒मस्तथा॒स्त्विति॑ ॥ २ ॥

The host should arise and welcome the guest saying: O Vratya, venerable guest, where were you last, where are you coming from? O Vratya, here is water for you. O Vratya, pray please yourself and do us the favour of sharing your knowledge and wisdom. Vratya, whatever you like we shall offer. Vratya, as you wish, so shall be done. Whatever you need and desire, will be provided.
In Atharva-vedá 7.52 we also find a verse for harmony and peace among the natives and the foreigners:

सं॒ज्ञानं॑ न॒ः स्वेभिः॑ सं॒ज्ञान॒मर॑णेभिः । 
सं॒ज्ञान॑म॒श्विना यु॒वमि॒हास्मासु॒ नि य॑च्छतम् ॥ १॥ 


Let us have harmony and unanimity of mind with our people around, also harmony and unanimity of mind and understanding with the distant and the foreigners. O Ashvins, complementary powers of senior’s communication, mother and father, teacher and preacher, authorities of government and law, in life here, give us harmony, unanimity and mutual understanding of perception, opinion and will in life and corporate affairs. ~ Atharva-vedá 7.52.1

The vedic opinion towards hospitality is also seen in the Taittirīya Upaniṣad’s śikṣā vallī 1.11.2:

मातृदेवो भव । पितृदेवो भव ।
आचार्यदेवो भव । अतिथिदेवो भव ।

Be one to whom a mother is as god, be one to whom a father is as god,
Be one to whom an Acharya (spiritual guide, scholars you learn from) is as god, be one to whom a guest is as god. ~ Taittirīya Upaniṣad 1.11.2

Though the Taittirīya Upaniṣad is a late text (later than the time of the composition of the Vedic proper), I think it is fair to assume such an attitude towards guests was present for a while before. 

